So how do we open the device camera?
The good thing is, if you'll remember, the first section offers module flutter, actually uses start
and it runs on an engine.
So to say, which gives you direct access to the system, to the operating system you're running on
so you can directly tap into such native device features.
Flutter gives you a direct bridge to these features.
And later, in a module, by the way, I'll also show you how you can actually ride your own native
Swift or Java code for ISIS or for Android and connect that to your Flat-Rate code and you'll see how
easy that is, because Flutter has all the features it needs to talk to the underlying platform.
So IOW, for Android, it has all the features it needs to talk to the platform built in.
So they offer talking to ISIS or to Android to open a camera is really simple.
Still, you would have to write some Java words, swift code to really then tell Android or IWK to open
a camera.
And of course, that's not something we want to do here, because chances are you don't know swift.
You don't know Java.
And the good thing is for all the common interactions you want to have with your device.
So things like working with maps or working with the camera, you got packages which you can install
that take all the heavy lifting away from you and just give you a couple of dart methods you can call.
Q will open a camera to open maps and so on.
There are official packages managed by the flutter team and tons of inofficial ones managed by the community.
And if you search for image underscored picker here on popped up.
Def.
You'll find a couple of plugins that help you with selecting images and definitely feel free to explore
them all the one.
All use is the image picker plug in here.
This is a great plug in, which makes it very easy to work with the device camera selector image or
take an image and then work with that image.
It has detailed installation docs here.
And as always, the installation starts by going to the installing tap here and copying that dependency
and then simply go into your perspective.
YAML file here and there, add it and then save it.
And as always, it fetches this automatically.
If it doesn't run, flatter packages get into terminal after navigating into this project here.
So with that added here, we can start using this package to open to camera.
So here, an image input dart you now can import.
A package with Package Colen, and it's the image picture package and Darity, the image picker darte
filed with dead, added, you can go down here Tudor's function, which is triggered when this flat
button is pressed.
And there I now want to start taking my image nose's.
We have a bit more code in there.
I'll actually use a named method here, a named function of.
This is a Bidwill nicer to read.
Our code is a bit more structured and I'll name it.
Picture.
And I'll come back to the typed his returns in a second.
And in here I'll use Image Picker and we don't instantiate this.
Instead, you use this as a clause which provides a couple of static methods.
If you click on it, you see it has static methods in there, like the PIC image method and you already
see this.
This will return a future so you can call pic image here to open the camera and take an image.
And this returns a future because of course, dead will take a while to finish, at least until the
user pressed the camera button and confirmed the image.
So here we'll get back a future.
And therefore I want to use async await.
And therefore here will return a future.
Here, however, a future which won't yield anything.
But here, I, of course, want to await for this image to be taken.
And then we'll have the image file as a response here.
Whipsnade, that should be final.
So in the end, after the image took and confirmed, the image will have a image file here.
Now, there is an important note to take, though, if you are using image picker in Syria on six or
seven or higher.
So if you're not using the six dot five or anything like that, then this syntax changes slightly or
you can change it.
You can still use the syntax to show you here.
But alternatively, you can now also instantiate the image picker to create the image picker.
So actually, you would store does in a new final constant then.
And the on this picker you can call get image now to get image.
You will still be able to pass to exact same arguments.
I'm now going to pass over the next minutes.
So that does not change.
But how you trigger that image picking process that changed, you instantiate and then call get image
on the instance instead of calling pig image as a static method.
It depends on the package words you're using.
And as I just said, you can also still use the other approach with the newer package wording, but
you might want to consider switching to that alternative.
I just showed you now pick image needs to be configured.
You need to provide the source argument and define what your source for the image should be, because
there are two sources and you can use the image source enum for dad, which is provided by the image
picker package.
And there you have the camera or the gallery.
Now I want to use the camera.
But of course you could also use the gallery instead to let the user will take an image from their.
And another argument you can define is the max height or max width and all restrict the image or automatically
crop it to a max width of 600.
So did our image isn't too big.
Because, of course, modern phones really have high resolution cameras and you therefore shoot large
images.
And for this app, we don't need such a large image.
So to save some space on the device and also speed up our app.
You should, of course, ensure that you only take images in a size that you really need and don't take
high resolution images if your app doesn't need them.
If it does, of course do so.
So your debt will now configure the image I want to take it will take the image and thereafter it will
store it here.
An image file.
Now, let's hook up the take picture method here to this button, so point at.
Take picture without parentheses.
Don't want to execute this method when the code gets passed, but instead when the user presses the
button.
And with all of that, we're almost there.
But one super important thing is missing.
Often when working with native device features like a camera or with the user location, you need to
ask for permission before you use these features and therefore you need to add some extra setup.
And you see that also in the package here in the Read Me file.
And basically, whenever you're working with a package that leverages some native the wise feature which
needs permissions.
The official documentation should tell you about that.
So the official docs year Florida plug ins you're using are always worth having a look at because they
tell you what you need to configure for this package to work correctly.
Of course, you should not just check the read me for packages that use native to wise features.
You should actually read the read before all packages you're using, but especially for packages that
use native device features.
You should have a look so that you don't miss any setup.
And here we get extra hints on how to configure this for ISDN and for Android and for Android.
As you see, we need no extra Quantic.
But for us, we do there.
We need to add it the info P list file in the Iowa as a runner folder.
Now, if you're on Windows or Linux, you won't have an ISIS folder because you can't build ISIS apps
there.
But if you are on Mac OS, make sure you go to the Iowas folder in your flutter project and dear to
the runner folder and then to invoke P list info.
P list is a consideration file for the Aiwass app, where you set up things like a weird number of the
app, but also some permissions you need and to text you want to show in the permission prompts which
I os automatically shows to the user when the user is about to use the camera.
Use the location.
Anything like that.
So here you see free keys, which you should add.
So just copy that name and then in here you can pick any place.
Maybe here.
Above that key, you launch story, but name a story board name.
So right next to such a key entry, not between key and string or a key or whatever, because these
entries always belong together.
You have a key and then that's the value for the key.
So don't enter your new entry between such a key value pair.
But instead, add a new key here with these opening and closing elements here key.
And then again, key with a forward slash between the angle brackets and then enter that key, which
you got from the official box.
And now the value here is a string because you enter some text which is displayed to the user when he
basically is about to use a feature that needs that permission.
So here does would be the permission you need when you want to use the gallery.
We're actually not using that, so we technically don't need this.
But in case you want to use the gallery, add this permission.
That's why I'm showing it here.
So here you can display.
Any text that, well, gets to user to confirm this or give you the permission.
So we need to take a picture, maybe you provide a more meaningful text than that.
But I think you're getting the idea here.
So a never permission, which we need to add for our app here certainly is to camera usage description.
You need Dad when you want to use the camera.
Alice showed the same text here.
You could enter a different text, of course, and then here the microphone use such.
You only need that if you want to take a video where you will also record the audio.
We're definitely not doing that here, so we don't need to set this up.
So this year, the camera key.
That's the important one for us.
If you want to use the gallery, yours need that.
And if you want to record videos, you also should ask for permission to record the audio.
With dad, we're all set for.
I was asked the official docs state.
We don't need a special setup for Android.
So with that, we should now be able to press that button.
Let's do a full refresh and then let's see whether that works.
Let's go here to the ad plays, screen click, take picture.
And I'm actually getting an error here.
No implementation found for method pig image on channel plug ins.
Now, this should be a problem that can be solved by closing our process and fully rebuilding a restarting
the app.
Simply because we added a plug in that's taps into native device functionalities that can sometimes
lead to problems, so let's do a full restart here.
And now let's go back to that at lace screen click, take picture again.
And now it does opens up the camera here.
Now, the first time you launched as you get this info screen here.
So let's go back in that case here.
Leave the camera.
And let's press it again.
Camera opens up again.
Now, here we can take a picture.
And confirmed as with the check market.
We're happy this close, this deal camera.
And now we got a handle to that image.
It's now stored in that variable.
But of course, now we need to do something with that variable to save it on our local device in the
fall system there.